hello friends in this video to see how to search
for an element in hash table with linear probing
So we have a function search here which takes the
value to be searched and we have this hash table
here
Let a search for element four first so value equal
to four on by our hash function four should have
been stored an index four mod five which is equal
to four
So just copy to index and check if index
four has the value four so just as we did an
insertion and deletion in use of while loop with condition
arr  of index not equal to value and if it is
equal to value search is found and otherwise we have to
check in the next indices and if it is not
found in any of the indices the search is
not found
So that is how it works
And here arr  of index equal to four
So while fails that is we found the element four
at index four
So simply return one as the search was successful
now let us a search for element 12
So find the key first and we have 12 mod
five equal to two now copy this index two index
and check if index two has the value 12 and
here arr  of index that is arr  of two equal to
two not value 12
So while condition is true so we find the next
index that is index plus one mod size that is
two plus one mod five that is three mod five
equal to three and check if it is equal to
key and it is not so if fails and this
iteration is completed now in the next iteration check the
while condition and we have arr  of three equal to
minus one and not our value 12
So again while is true that his 12 is not
present in this index so find the new index and
we have index equal to three plus one mod five
that is four mod five equal to four and check
if it is equal to key and it is not
so
If fails and this iteration is completed now in the
next iteration check the while condition and we have
arr of four equal to four and not our
value 12
So again while is true that is 12
It's not present in this index also so find the
new index and we have index equal to index plus
one mod size that is four plus one mod five
that is five mod five equal to zero and check
if it is equal to key
But it is not so
check the while condition for the next iteration and we have
arr  of zero equal to 10 and not 12
So again while is true and we have to find
a new index and we have index equal to zero
plus one mod five that is one mod five equal
to one check if it is equal to key
But it is not so
If fails and the iteration is completed and for the
next iteration let us check the while condition and we
have arr  of one equal to 15 and not 12
Which means 12 is not present in this index also
So we have to find the new index and we
have index equal to one plus one mod five that
is two mod five equal to two now check if
it is equal to key and it is that is
we have searched all the indices is for element 12
and we did not find it so written zero as
the search was unsuccessful
So that is how we implement hash table using linear
probing method we learnt how to implement insertion deletion
and searching in insertion
We can find the key using value mod size equation
And if collision occurs simply check the next index
And in deletion and searching we first check the supposed
index
And if it is not there check the next indices
and to delete an element just make that index equal
to minus one
So that was close hashing
And in the next video let us discuss about open
hashing.